Updated guidance around AMBA (#124)
bcgov/public-cloud-techdocs: docs/azure/get-started-with-azure/bc-govs-azure-landing-zone-overview.md

---

## Benefits of building apps in the Azure public cloud

> For B.C. government ministry teams developing applications in the Azure Public cloud, the OCIO Landing Zone provides a secure, compliant, and efficient pathway. This facilitates the creation of innovative and responsive applications that effectively serve the public.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OCIO Landing Zone helps B.C. government ministry teams build secure, compliant, and efficient applications in the Azure public cloud. It supports the development of innovative and responsive apps that better serve people in B.C. 
```

The Cloud Adoption Framework (CAF) implements the components necessary for centralized monitoring and logging, include: [Azure Monitor](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/overview), [Azure Activity Logs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/activity-log-insights), [Azure Metrics](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/data-platform-metrics), and a centralized [Log Analytics Workspace](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/logs/log-analytics-workspace-overview).

!!! note "Team Responsibility"
    Each team is responsible for configuring the monitoring and logging of their resources, including the collection of metrics, logs, and alerts.

While Microsoft provides various "insights or solutions" for popular services (ie. [Storage Insights](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-insights-overview), [VM Insights](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/vm/vminsights-overview), [Container Insights](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-overview)), these do not cover every Azure service.

> As a potential starting point, each team might evaluate if a custom deployment of the [Azure Monitor Baseline Alerts](https://azure.github.io/azure-monitor-baseline-alerts/welcome/) (AMBA) will meet their needs. The Azure Monitor Baseline Alerts provides a starting point for the question "**What should be monitored in Azure?**" It provides a set of baselines that are based on Microsoft recommended practices for proactive monitoring, such as setting up [alerts](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-overview), [thresholds](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-dynamic-thresholds), and notifications for timely problem detection and response. Included in this, is a generic [Action Group](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/action-groups) and [Alert Processing Rule](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-processing-rules?tabs=portal) that can be used to send notifications to a variety of endpoints (email, SMS, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a starting point, each team can assess whether a custom deployment of the [Azure Monitor Baseline Alerts](https://azure.github.io/azure-monitor-baseline-alerts/welcome/) (AMBA) meets their needs. AMBA helps answer the question: **“What should we monitor in Azure?”** It offers baseline alerts based on Microsoft’s recommended practices for proactive monitoring. These include setting up [alerts](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-overview), [thresholds](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-dynamic-thresholds) and notifications to detect and respond to issues quickly. AMBA also includes a general-purpose [Action Group](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/action-groups) and [Alert Processing R](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/alerts-processing-rules?tabs=portal) that can send notifications through email, SMS, and other channels.
```
